[Serve][Doc] Add Application serve examples. (#33164)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/serve/tutorials/stable-diffusion.md

(serve-stable-diffusion-tutorial)=

# Serving Stable Diffusion Model

> In this guide, we will show you how to build a stable diffusion application with Ray Serve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build a stable diffusion application with Ray Serve.
```

> For this example, we use [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2) model and FastAPI to build the example. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses the [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2) model and FastAPI. 
```

Serve Code:
```{literalinclude} ../doc_code/stable_diffusion.py
```

> Save above code to a file e.g. stable_diffusion.py. You can use `serve run stable_diffusion:entrypoint` to start the serve application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `serve run stable_diffusion:entrypoint` to start the serve application.
```

:::{note}

> The autoscaling config is using min_replica = 0, replica will be spawn when the request arrives. When there is no request, Serve Application will downsacle replicas to 0 for saving GPU resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `min_replica = 0` in the autoscaling configuration, the Serve application spawns a replica when a request arrives. If there are no requests, it downscales replicas to 0 to save GPU resources.
```

:::

> You should see output in the end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These messages are expected in the output.
```

```text
(ServeController pid=362, ip=10.0.44.233) INFO 2023-03-08 16:44:57,579 controller 362 http_state.py:129 - Starting HTTP proxy with name 'SERVE_CONTROLLER_ACTOR:SERVE_PROXY_ACTOR-7396d5a9efdb59ee01b7befba448433f6c6fc734cfa5421d415da1b3' on node '7396d5a9efdb59ee01b7befba448433f6c6fc734cfa5421d415da1b3' listening on '127.0.0.1:8000'
(ServeController pid=362, ip=10.0.44.233) INFO 2023-03-08 16:44:57,588 controller 362 http_state.py:129 - Starting HTTP proxy with name 'SERVE_CONTROLLER_ACTOR:SERVE_PROXY_ACTOR-a30ea53938547e0bf88ce8672e578f0067be26a7e26d23465c46300b' on node 'a30ea53938547e0bf88ce8672e578f0067be26a7e26d23465c46300b' listening on '127.0.0.1:8000'
(HTTPProxyActor pid=439, ip=10.0.44.233) INFO:     Started server process [439]
(HTTPProxyActor pid=5779) INFO:     Started server process [5779]
(ServeController pid=362, ip=10.0.44.233) INFO 2023-03-08 16:44:59,362 controller 362 deployment_state.py:1333 - Adding 1 replica to deployment 'APIIngress'.
2023-03-08 16:45:01,316 SUCC <string>:93 -- Deployed Serve app successfully.
```

> You can use following code to send request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following code to send requests.
```

```python
import requests

prompt = "a cute cat is dancing on the grass."
input = "%20".join(prompt.split(" "))
resp = requests.get(f"http://127.0.0.1:8000/imagine?prompt={input}")
with open("output.png", 'wb') as f:
    f.write(resp.content)
```

> At the end, `output.png` file should be saved locally. Checkout!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `output.png` file is saved locally. 
```

> (serve-stable-diffusion-tutorial)=

Reviewer 2: Could you apply the same wording suggestions I made for `object-detection.md` to this file also?

> # Serving Stable Diffusion Model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Serving a Stable Diffusion Model
```

> Build a stable diffusion application with Ray Serve.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial will show you how to run a stable diffusion with Ray Serve.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run a stable diffusion application with Ray Serve in this tutorial.
```

> To run this example, you will need to install the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run this example, you need to install the following:
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run this example, install the following:
```

```bash
pip install "ray[serve]" requests torch diffusers
```

> This example uses the [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2) model and FastAPI to build the example. Save the following code to a file named stable_diffusion.py. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example uses the [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2) model and [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) to build the example. Save the following code to a file named stable_diffusion.py. 
```

> Serve Code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Serve code is as follows:
```

```{literalinclude} ../doc_code/stable_diffusion.py
```

Use `serve run stable_diffusion:entrypoint` to start the serve application.

:::{note}

> When `min_replica = 0` in the autoscaling configuration, the Serve application spawns a replica when a request arrives. If there are no requests, it downscales replicas to 0 to save GPU resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The autoscaling config sets `min_replicas` to 0, which means the deployment starts with no `ObjectDetection` replicas. These replicas spawn only when a request arrives. When no requests arrive after a certain period, Serve downscales `ObjectDetection` back to 0 replica to save GPU resources.
```

:::

> These messages are expected in the output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These messages are expected in the output:
```

```text
(ServeController pid=362, ip=10.0.44.233) INFO 2023-03-08 16:44:57,579 controller 362 http_state.py:129 - Starting HTTP proxy with name 'SERVE_CONTROLLER_ACTOR:SERVE_PROXY_ACTOR-7396d5a9efdb59ee01b7befba448433f6c6fc734cfa5421d415da1b3' on node '7396d5a9efdb59ee01b7befba448433f6c6fc734cfa5421d415da1b3' listening on '127.0.0.1:8000'
(ServeController pid=362, ip=10.0.44.233) INFO 2023-03-08 16:44:57,588 controller 362 http_state.py:129 - Starting HTTP proxy with name 'SERVE_CONTROLLER_ACTOR:SERVE_PROXY_ACTOR-a30ea53938547e0bf88ce8672e578f0067be26a7e26d23465c46300b' on node 'a30ea53938547e0bf88ce8672e578f0067be26a7e26d23465c46300b' listening on '127.0.0.1:8000'
(HTTPProxyActor pid=439, ip=10.0.44.233) INFO:     Started server process [439]
(HTTPProxyActor pid=5779) INFO:     Started server process [5779]
(ServeController pid=362, ip=10.0.44.233) INFO 2023-03-08 16:44:59,362 controller 362 deployment_state.py:1333 - Adding 1 replica to deployment 'APIIngress'.
2023-03-08 16:45:01,316 SUCC <string>:93 -- Deployed Serve app successfully.
```

> Use the following code to send requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following code to send requests:
```

```python
import requests

prompt = "a cute cat is dancing on the grass."
input = "%20".join(prompt.split(" "))
resp = requests.get(f"http://127.0.0.1:8000/imagine?prompt={input}")
with open("output.png", 'wb') as f:
    f.write(resp.content)
```

> The `output.png` file is saved locally. Checkout it out!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `output.png` file is saved locally. Check it out!
```
